>> Jen Kramer: And
there are a lot of questions in Slack and
here in the classroom about units
of measure in working in CSS.
So yesterday I mentioned that the best
units of measure to be using for
your website designs and
there are a lot that are possible.
But the best ones and
the ones that the professionals are using,
especially for responsive design
include rem, and percent.
Those are the three big ones that
you're going to see in use now.
There's a lot of other ones,
believe it or not,
there's pixels, which are something
we tend not to use as much anymore,
there's points those are possible but
points are for print.
We don't use points in web design.
You might use them in a print style sheet,
which is a thing which we're
not going to talk about.
There are millimeters and centimeters,
those are things, there are inches.
I don't know why you would ever use
any of those in your CSS but you can.
And so the things that we really want
to focus on then are Rem, and percent.
And so the big question was what
is the difference between Rem and?
So rem, as I said, was root relative
where i talked about this yesterday.
Ems were very much an adaptive
type of measurement,
depends on where you are on
a particular webpage as one is defined.
So, I just dropped this code pen url,
I just rip this up on the break.
We're looking at a h1 and
a paragraph here.
And I put in a little bit of styling,
I put in some background color, so
you can see what's going on here, okay?
So what I'm gonna do here now,
for my h1, I'm gonna put in
padding of one just regular old.
One around my h1 and
you will see what I get there.
Now I am gonna put one of
padding around my paragraph.
Do those look like the same
amount of padding?
Anyone bothered by the fact that
they're significantly more on the green
one than there is on the blue?
That's weird isn't it?
But it has to do with the way
works as a unit of measure.
So is relative to the lowercase letter m.
That the width of the lowercase
letter m that is one m, and
obviously a lowercase letter m and
an h1, by default is much bigger.
And therefore the padding
around that h1 is much bigger
than what you're going to see
in a lowercase letter m and
just a plain old paragraph with
the default sizing set, right?
So you see how those don't even line up or
anything.
But if I change my ems here
in my padding to rems,
look how nice and
neat everything lines up now.
So this is as they say a root relative.
In other words, they're going back
to an being defined as the size of.
What is the font size of
the root tag of the document
root being the very first tag?
What is the first tag in your document?
After doc type?
HTML.
So what is the size of the font for
HTML by default?
16 pixels.
And we scale up from there for
the h1s and down.
So if I say one of padding here for
my h1, at one rem of padding for
my h1 in one rem of padding for
my paragraph and we're now talking
about exactly the same amount of space,
not a relative amount of space.
But an absolute amount of space and so
you can really see the difference
here in this example.
Okay yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Why is there less
padding on the left hand side
of each of those than on
the top in the bottom?
>> Jen Kramer: Less on the left rather
than on the top and the bottom.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Jen Kramer: That is because
that's a great question actually.
Why do you think?
>> Speaker 3: And
it is wider than it is tall?
>> Jen Kramer: Then is
wider than it is tall?
Close but not qiute.
Remember the h1 has got some margin on it.
>> Speaker 3: Earlier you used Pixel.
>> Jen Kramer: For borders.
For borders.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: And so for is that
because one rem would be too big or
can you use it part of
a rem like half around.
>> Jen Kramer: You
absolutely could put in.
I mean we could make a border
here of one rem solid orange.
That's a really big border, right?
So we could reduce that in size,
we could reduce it to 0.5 rem,
we could reduce it to 0.01 rem.
That's pretty thin.
>> Jen Kramer: 0.1rem, okay.
So we can do all of that and that's fine.
But borders in my mind
are something that aren't
necessarily scaling like text does depends
on your device like it's really important
that text scale on your device so
it's readable across tiny devices,
big devices and
borders are kind of decorative.
So I tend to stick with pixels
in borders because that
is reflecting like I want to really
thin one, through thin line.
But you can absolutely do
your borders in rems as well.
That's not a problem.
I think you'll see most people in
the industry using pixels for border.
That's like one of the only
places that we use them.